_docs/windows/getting-started.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Getting started with LAP Docker on Windows
category: 'Windows'
---


Requirements
----------
- Ensure [Virtualization (VT-x)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_virtualization) support is enabled within BIOS
- Install and configure [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/installation/windows/#installation)
- Run the `Boot2Docker Start` program

Run a basic LAMP stack
----------

Manually build images from git repository:

1. `docker build -t usdaeas/lap-docker https://github.com/usda-ocio-eas/lap-docker.git`
2. `docker build -t mysqldb https://github.com/nkratzke/easymysql.git`

Usage:

1. Make directories for your website files. We use the following setup:
 - `c:`
 - `cd \`
 - `mkdir www`
 - `cd www`
 - `pwd` (record this returned directory for step 2)
2. Run the mysqldb image
 - `docker run --name="mysqldb" -e right="WRITE" -d -p 3306:3306 mysqldb`
3. Run the usdaeas/lap-docker image
 - `docker run -d --name "domain.com" --hostname "domain.com" --link mysqldb:db -p 1080:1080 -p 80:80 -v [pwd]:/var/www usdaeas/lap-docker`
5. Access bash via `docker exec -t -i <container_id> bash`
 - The container_id can be retrieved by running `docker ps -a` for any existing container.

Accessing Apache Server
-----------------------

Visit http://[docker-ip-address]/ within a browser to access the public directory of your LAP-Docker container.


Sending Email
-------------

This image is configured to direct mail to mailcatcher. 

Visit http://[docker-ip-address]:1080 for access.


Log export
---------------

- Export log files from docker: `docker cp domain.com:/var/log domain.com_logs`
- Look for messages at boot for diagnostics.

Commit message:

Clarify LAP Docker setup and access instructions.

_docs/windows/getting-started.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Getting started with LAP Docker on Windows
category: 'Windows'
---


Requirements
----------
- Ensure [Virtualization (VT-x)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_virtualization) support is enabled within BIOS
- Install and configure [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/installation/windows/#installation)
- Run the `Boot2Docker Start` program

Run a basic LAMP stack
----------

Within Boot2Docker, build images from the git repository:

1. `docker build -t usdaeas/lap-docker https://github.com/usda-ocio-eas/lap-docker.git`
2. `docker build -t mysqldb https://github.com/nkratzke/easymysql.git`

Container setup:

1. Make directories for your website files. We use the following setup:
 - Create a new directory named 'www' in your Documents folder
 - Notate the full path of the directory and convert to unix format (*this is your pwd used in step 3*)
   - /[drive-letter]/Users/[Username]/Documents/www
   - For a user named `ron` on drive `c`, the pwd would be `/c/Users/ron/Documents/www`
2. Run the mysqldb image
 - `docker run --name="mysqldb" -e right="WRITE" -d -p 3306:3306 mysqldb`
3. Run the usdaeas/lap-docker image
 - `docker run -d --name "domain.com" --hostname "domain.com" --link mysqldb:db -p 1080:1080 -p 80:80 -v [pwd]:/var/www usdaeas/lap-docker`

Accessing Apache Server
-----------------------
1. Open a powershell window and run `boot2docker ip`; this is your Docker VM address.
2. Visit http://[docker-ip-address]/ within a browser to access the public directory of your LAP-Docker container.
3. Visit the LAP Docker dashboard at http://[docker-ip-address]/lap-docker/ (the trailing forward-slash is required).
